https://github.com/joydip-git/siemens-reactjs-batch1-2ndfeb2026


React JS:
-------------------
1. UI development JS library based on components
2. helps you create SPA
3. two packages: react and react-dom
4. main.tsx/jsx file is the bootstrapper
5. the render() function of the Root type element in React actually translates the VDOM (a series of React element objects) into HTML DOM (a series of HTML element objects)
6. a component: a function (or a class) which must return a react node
7.  a component function name MUST be in camel-casing along with the file name
8. everything (local data, style and design) should be written in the single component file with extension .jsx or .tsx
9. design syntax: JSX/TSX (JavaScript and XML)
10. choose between with or without JSX
11. binding syntax ({}) to bind data, style and handler functions with any element in JSX
12. commenting in JSX {/* */}
13. to use the component use it like a custom HTML tag (or call the component function)

14. state:
	a. to re-render a component based on the change of data in the component, you must create a state for the component using "useState" hook API.
	b. react will track the changes made to the data in the state and accordingly re-render the component by passing the updated data
	c. useState() hook API returns an array with 2 index positions
		- copy of the state data in the first index
		- reference to the method to update the data in the state in the 2nd index

Note:
	1. state updation is asynchronous and will re-render the component once the asynchronous state updation is over, without blocking the other codes in the component.

	2. rule: never mutate the state directly, rather use the reference to the function, as returned by useState hook, to update the state.

	3. a component can have multiple state. 
	4. state could be of any type.
	5. a state is a component's intrinsic part. it can never be shared with any other component.

15. passing data between parent and nested component (props):
	a. to pass data from a parent to a nested component react uses an object with data and handler functions to be passed through several properties of that object. it is known as props or propery object
	b. while using JSX syntax where component is used like a custom HTML tag, you can some arbitray custom attributes, which in turn becomes the properties in the property object and carry data and handler

	Note:
	a. in TS, you need to define a custom type or an interface with desired properties with their data types
	b. then declare an argument in the component function of that type
	c. then while usin the component as custom HTML tag use those properties as attributes and bind expected data and handler etc.
	d. the property object is a readonly type. hence the property values are immutable. any modification of those properties will crash the application









 function useState<T>(initialState:T){
	let data = initialState
	async function update(newState:T){
		data = newState
	}
	async function update(callback:(state:T)=>T){
		data = callback(data)
	}
	return [data,update]
}